Important Configuration Information

This page provides important configuration details about this exam.
Desktop

    You do not have root access to the desktop system at which you are seated.

    Use the desktop to read instructions and documentation, open web-UIs, and interact with the exam systems via SSH.

Passwords

    Unless otherwise specified, the password for all users and services is: bolero137

    Use this password for any users or services that you create or configure, unless instructed otherwise.

    Do not change any existing user or service passwords, unless instructed otherwise.

    The password for the OpenShift kubeadmin virtual user is provided in the file /root/kubeadmin-password on the administrator workbench system (see below).

Documentation
Offline product documentation is available here: http://rhgls.domainXX.example.com/docs/

    Firefox can use a significant amount of memory to render large HTML and PDF documents. In some cases, you can get better performance by downloading PDFs and opening them locally with the evince PDF viewer.

    If you download PDF files for viewing with evince and find that it fails to render certain pages, you must either view the same document with the Firefox in-browser PDF viewer or refer to the HTML version of the same document.

Exam Systems
You will be working with the following virtual systems for this exam: 
System Role	System
Administrator workbench	workbench.domainXX.example.com
Container registry	registry.domainXX.example.com
Load balancer	lb.domainXX.example.com
OCP master	master0.domainXX.example.com
OCP master	master1.domainXX.example.com
OCP master	master2.domainXX.example.com
OCP worker	worker0.domainXX.example.com
OCP worker	worker1.domainXX.example.com
 The IP addresses for these systems are set statically. Do not change these settings.

The network mask for all systems is 255.255.255.0

Your systems are in the DNS domain domainXX.example.com. All systems in the domainXX.example.com DNS domain are in the 172.24.2.0/255.255.255.0 subnet, and all systems in that subnet are in domainXX.example.com. Unless otherwise specified, any network services you are asked to implement should be accessible to systems in domainXX.example.com

Host name resolution has been configured to resolve both the fully qualified host names listed above as well as the host short names.

    Workbench

        You have SSH access to the administrator workbench system -- you can log in as either the root or opsadm users.

        The OpenShift client tools and other ancillary programs (oc, jq, yq, jsonlint) have been installed on this system with the expectation that you will do most of your work there as the opsadm user.

        X.509 certificate authentication for the OpenShift system:admin account has been preconfigured for both the root and opsadm users.

        If you need to install additional software, the necessary yum repositories have been preconfigured for you.

    OpenShift Cluster

        A cluster of machines running Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform v4.10 has been installed and preconfigured for you.

        Following best practice guidelines, control plane workloads are expected to run on master nodes only while user workloads are expected to run on worker nodes only.

        API endpoint: https://api.domainXX.example.com:6443

        Web console: https://console-openshift-console.apps.domainXX.example.com

Restricted Exam Environment
The exam environment is subject to certain restrictions.

    Connectivity to Systems

        SSH: You can SSH only to the administrator workbench system.

        Console: You do not have console access to any of the systems.

        Other: Unless explicitly mentioned in the instructions, all other network protocols are blocked (including ICMP traffic).

    Management of Systems

        Shutting down: If you power off any of your systems, you will need to enlist the help of the exam proctor to get them started up again. Be warned that it could take at least 5-15 minutes for a system to become available if it has been completely powered down.

        Rebooting: None of the exam tasks require rebooting your systems. Furthermore, none of your systems will be rebooted prior to grading. Should you deem it necessary, it is of course within your control to reboot the administrator workbench through SSH.

        Locked out: With root access to the administrator workbench system, you have the ability to render it completely non-functional. If you lock yourself out of this system, the exam proctor will not be able to assist you.

    No Internet Access

        You do not have access to resources on the global Internet unless explicitly stated otherwise.

        For example, documentation often contains links to external websites -- understand that it is normal and expected for these links to fail.

Interacting with Exam Instructions

    When viewing the exam table of contents, you will see that each item has a set of radio buttons associated with it. You can use these buttons to indicate item completion or flag to revisit. Similarly, when viewing exam item instruction pages, you might see checkboxes.

    Note that the buttons and checkboxes serve no purpose other than to allow you to track your own progress.

    Each exam item instruction page has a button labeled Provide feedback on this item (as you can see below).

    Please note that submitting feedback in this way does not mean you will be contacted by the Certification Team.

    If you find problems that the exam proctor was unable to resolve and you wish to talk to the Certification Team about your concerns, you must open a ticket after the exam. Your exam results email will include details about contacting the Certification Team. 

